# Geodesic Structure Builder and Renderer
A client-side [web application](https://calebsg225.github.io/geo-js) for building and rendering various [Geodesic Polyhedra](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geodesic_polyhedron)

- [Features](#features)
  - [Build Menu](#build-menu)
  - [Render Menu](#render-menu)
- [Future Endeavors](#future-endeavors)

## Features
- [Build Menu](#build-menu)
- [Render Menu](#render-menu)

### Build Menu
Add and remove 'layers'. This layering system, as far as I'm aware, is entirely unique to my software;
No other Geodesic Structure software that I've found implements it.

Each 'layer' subdivides the triangles generated by the previous layer in the [manor specified](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geodesic_polyhedron#Class_I).

### Render Menu
Define how Nodes, Edges, and Faces look in the render.


## Future Endeavors

- [Calculations](#calculations)
- [Trussing](#trussing)
- [Other Base Shapes](#base-shapes)
- [Re-write (in rust?)](#re-write)

### Calculations
One feature I have yet to implement that is fairly common among existing software is the generation of 'specs' for a given structure.
This would include the various node, edge, and face properties that would be useful for anyone desiring to construct the structure in the real world, or just curious about scale.

### Trussing
Geodesic structures are extrodinarily strong as is, but the addition of a layer of trusses greatly improves stability, and is generally
a requirement for structures with a large triangle subdivision frequency. There are a number
of ways to truss a geodesic structure, none of which are implemented in any existing software that I've tried. Trussed geodesic structures
are not often mentioned in existing literature either, despite its usefulness. Maybe people find it too complicated or not worth it?

This feature would determine what trussing options are available for a particular structure and provide them as options. Calculations for the 
specified trussing pattern will also be provided.

### Base Shapes
The icosahedron, tetrahedron, and octahedron are the most common base shapes for constructing geodesic structures from, and so those are the first ones I have implemented.
There are many other shapes out there though and I'd like to experiment with some.

### Re-Write
While I'm glad to have written this program, there are many things I know now that I didn't know when I began this project. 
I plan to push this version as far as it'll go in its current state in order to flush out any more poor choices, then 
use what I've learned to build a (hopefully) superior revision.


Some examples of what I'm talking about:
- I started this project with an almost non-existant understanding/familiarity with linear algebra and vectors.
- I didn't even consider the possibility of using the clients gpu for faster structure generation and rendering.
- My knowledge on geodesic structures (the whole point of the project) was not as good as I thought it was. I didn't know what I didn't know, and it bit me.
My structure generation methods, while functional, are messy and suboptimal.

These are the main ones, but there are other small issues. Any future iterations must deal with all of the above, and more.
